Prerequisite-

Linux

Introduction to Linux  – Establishing the fundamental knowledge of how linux works and how you can begin with Linux OS. 
Linux Basics – File Handling, data extraction, etc.
Hands-on Sessions And Assignments for Practice


Version Control 

What is version control, types, SVN. GIT, Git Lifecycle, Common Git commands, Working with branches in Git
Github collaboration (pull request), Github Authentication (ssh and Http), Merging branches, Resolving merge conflicts, Git workflow

Data Analysis With MS-Excel

Excel Fundamentals 

Reading the Data, Referencing in formulas , Name Range, Logical Functions, Conditional Formatting, Advanced Validation, Dynamic Tables in Excel, Sorting and Filtering 
Working with Charts in Excel, Pivot Table, Dashboards, Data And File Security 
VBA Macros, Ranges and Worksheet in VBA 
IF conditions, loops, Debugging, etc.
Excel For Data Analytics 

Handling Text Data, Splitting, combining, data imputation on text data, Working with Dates in Excel, Data Conversion, Handling Missing Values, Data Cleaning, Working with Tables in Excel, etc.  
Data Visualization with Excel

Charts, Pie charts, Scatter and bubble charts
Bar charts, Column charts, Line charts, Maps
Multiples: A set of charts with the same axes, Matrices, Cards, Tiles
Excel Power Tools 

Power Pivot, Power Query and Power View
Classification Problems using Excel

Binary Classification Problems, Confusion Matrix, AUC and ROC curve 
Multiple Classification Problems  
Information Measure in Excel

Probability, Entropy, Dependence 
Mutual Information 
Regression Problems Using Excel

Standardization, Normalization, Probability Distributions 
Inferential Statistics, Hypothesis Testing, ANOVA, Covariance, Correlation
Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, Error in regression, Information Gain using Regression
Hands-on Exercise:

Classification problem using excel on sales data, and statistical tests on various samples from the population.

Data Analysis with SQL

SQL Basics – 

	Fundamentals of Structured Query Language
	SQL Tables, Joins, Variables 
Advanced SQL –  

	SQL Functions, Subqueries, Rules, Views
	Nested Queries, string functions, pattern matching
	Mathematical functions, Date-time functions, etc. 
Deep Dive into User Defined Functions

	Types of UDFs, Inline table value, multi-statement table. 
	Stored procedures, rank function, SQL ROLLUP, etc.
SQL Optimization and Performance
	Record grouping, searching, sorting, etc. 
	Clustered indexes, common table expressions.

Hands-on exercise: 

Writing comparison data between past year to present year with respect to top products, ignoring the redundant/junk data, identifying the meaningful data,  and identifying the demand in the future(using complex subqueries, functions, pattern matching concepts).


Python with Data Science

Introduction to Python and IDEs – The basics of the python programming language, how you can use various IDEs for python development like Jupyter, Pycharm, etc. 
Python Basics – Variables, Data Types, Loops, Conditional Statements, functions, decorators, lambda functions, file handling, exception handling ,etc.
Object Oriented Programming – Introduction to OOPs concepts like classes, objects, inheritance, abstraction, polymorphism, encapsulation, etc.
Hands-on Sessions And Assignments for Practice – The culmination of all the above concepts with real-world problem statements for better understanding.

Extract Transform Load - Web Scraping, Interacting with APIs
Data Handling with NumPy

	NumPy Arrays, CRUD Operations, etc.
	Linear Algebra – Matrix multiplication, CRUD operations, Inverse, Transpose, Rank, Determinant of a matrix, Scalars, Vectors, Matrices.

Data Manipulation Using Pandas
	Loading the data, dataframes, series, CRUD operations, splitting the data, etc.

Data Preprocessing
	Exploratory Data Analysis, Feature engineering, Feature scaling, Normalization, standardization, etc.
	Null Value Imputations, Outliers Analysis and Handling, VIF, Bias-variance trade-off, cross validation techniques, train-test split, etc.

Data Visualization
	Bar charts, scatter plots, count plots, line plots, pie charts, donut charts, etc. with Python matplotlib.
	Regression plots, categorical plots, area plots, etc, with Python seaborn.



Linear Algebra and statistics
Descriptive Statistics – 
	Measure of central tendency, measure of spread, five points summary, etc. 
Probability 
	Probability Distributions, bayes theorem, central limit theorem. 
Inferential Statistics –  
	Correlation, covariance, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, F-test, Z-test, t-test, ANOVA, chi-square test, etc.

Practical- Linear algebra with Python and Excel

Introduction to Machine learning 

Supervised, Unsupervised learning.
	Introduction to scikit-learn, Keras, etc.

Regression 
	Introduction classification problems, Identification of a regression problem, dependent and independent variables.
	How to train the model in a regression problem.
	How to evaluate the model for a regression problem.
	How to optimize the efficiency of the regression model.

Classification 
	Introduction to classification problems, Identification of a classification problem, dependent and independent variables.
	How to train the model in a classification problem.
	How to evaluate the model for a classification problem.
	How to optimize the efficiency of the classification model.

Clustering 
	Introduction to clustering problems, Identification of a clustering problem, dependent and independent variables.
	How to train the model in a clustering problem.
	How to evaluate the model for a clustering problem.
	How to optimize the efficiency of the clustering model.

Supervised Learning 
	Linear Regression – Creating linear regression models for linear data using statistical tests, data preprocessing, standardization, normalization, etc.
	Logistic Regression – Creating logistic regression models for classification problems – such as if a person is diabetic or not, if there will be rain or not, etc.
	Decision Tree – Creating decision tree models on classification problems in a tree like format with optimal solutions.
	Random Forest – Creating random forest models for classification problems in a supervised learning approach.
	Support Vector Machine – SVM or support vector machines for regression and classification problems.
	Gradient Descent – Gradient descent algorithm that is an iterative optimization approach to finding local minimum and maximum of a given function.
	K-Nearest Neighbors – A simple algorithm that can be used for classification problems.
	Time Series Forecasting – Making use of time series data, gathering insights and useful forecasting solutions using time series forecasting.
	Unsupervised Learning 

K-means – The k-means algorithm that can be used for clustering problems in an unsupervised learning approach.
	Dimensionality reduction – Handling multi dimensional data and standardizing the features for easier computation.
	Linear Discriminant Analysis –  LDA or linear discriminant analysis to reduce or optimize the dimensions in the multidimensional data.
	Principal Component Analysis – PCA follows the same approach in handling the multidimensional data.

Performance Metrics
	Classification reports – To evaluate the model on various metrics like recall, precision, f-support, etc.
	Confusion matrix – To evaluate the true positive/negative, false positive/negative outcomes in the model.
	r2, adjusted r2, mean squared error, etc.

Practical: Machine Learning with Python and Excel

Deep Learning 

Artificial Intelligence Basics 

	Introduction to keras API and tensorflow
Neural Networks

	Neural networks	
	Multi-layered Neural Networks
	Artificial Neural Networks 
	Deep Learning 

Deep neural networks
	Convolutional Neural Networks 
	Recurrent Neural Networks
	GPU in deep learning
	Autoencoders, restricted boltzmann machine 

Practical :  Deep Learning using Keras and tensorflow


NAtural Language Processing

Text Mining, Cleaning, and Pre-processing

Various Tokenizers, Tokenization, Frequency Distribution, Stemming, POS Tagging, Lemmatization, Bigrams, Trigrams & Ngrams, Lemmatization, Entity Recognition.
Text classification, NLTK, sentiment analysis, etc  

Overview of Machine Learning, Words, Term Frequency, Countvectorizer, Inverse Document Frequency, Text conversion, Confusion Matrix, Naive Bayes Classifier.
Sentence Structure, Sequence Tagging, Sequence Tasks, and Language Modeling

Language Modeling, Sequence Tagging, Sequence Tasks, Predicting Sequence of Tags, Syntax Trees, Context-Free Grammars, Chunking, Automatic Paraphrasing of Texts, Chinking.
AI Chatbots and Recommendations Engine 

Using the NLP concepts, build a recommendation engine and an AI chatbot assistant using AI. 

practical: NLP using Scala and Python


Data Science At Scale with Pyspark

Introduction to Big Data And Spark
	Apache spark framework, RDDs, Stopgaps in existing computing methodologies

RDDs

	RDD persistence, caching, General operations: Transformation, Actions, and Functions.
	Concept of Key-Value pair in RDDs, Other pair, two pair RDDs
	RDD Lineage, RDD Persistence, WordCount Program Using RDD Concepts
	RDD Partitioning & How it Helps Achieve Parallelization

Advanced Concepts & Spark-Hive
	Passing Functions to Spark, Spark SQL Architecture, SQLContext in Spark SQL
	User-Defined Functions, Data Frames, Interoperating with RDDs
	Loading Data through Different Sources, Performance Tuning
	Spark-Hive Integration
